Building Chess game using Symfony 2 Components: Dependency Injection
========================================================

What is Dependency Injection?
-----------------

Before we learn about Dependency Injection, we need to know a bit about service.
Put simply, a Service is any PHP object that performs some sort of "global"
task. In modern PHP application, there are a lot of objects. For example, in our
application, there are a list services that deal with database, some services
take care of rendering template file, other services create and handle data
from a form...
The problem is, a service does not come alone, it depend on other services, and
the child service depend on other services, and so on. So we need a root service
that help use instantiate, organize and retrieve the many object in our
application. That root service is called: service container.

Dependency Injection is a way of creating service. Instead of creating
dependency objects some where inside the class, we create them outside, and then
inject (reference) them into the class by constructor, or setters. By using this
way, the dependencies can be replace and customize easily, so that the system
is very flexible and easy to test.

Use Dependency Injection in our application
------------

Acctually, we created framework object by using dependency injection already:

```
$dispatcher = new EventDispatcher();
$resolver = new ControllerResolver();
$kernel = new HttpKernel($dispatcher, $resolver);
$response = $kernel->handle($request);
```

We create $dispatcher and $resolver objects outside HttpKernel class, and then
inject them through constructor.
We can use service container to manage dependencies. Create container.php and
put these content:

```
<?php
// src/container.php

use Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\ContainerBuilder;
use Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\Reference;

$sc = new ContainerBuilder();

$sc->register('framework', 'Tchess\Framework')
        ->setArguments(array(new Reference('dispatcher'), new Reference('resolver')))
        ->addMethodCall('setContainer', array($sc));
return $sc;
```

In this example, we create framework object, with 2 dependencies: dispatcher and
resolver. The we pass service container itself into framework by calling setter:
setContainer. There is a bad practice here: we inject the service container. In
the real application, we must know what the framework is really need, and inject
the those dependencies instead of service container.

In the index.php, we replace $kernel by our framework service:

```
$sc = include __DIR__ . '/../src/container.php';
$response = $sc->get('framework')->handle($request);
// ...
$sc->get('framework')->terminate($request, $response);
```

More about service container
-------------------------

There are some notes about services that managed by service container:
 * Service can be referenced by its id
 * Service can be referenced before it being declared
 * Service definition can be updated, below is an example:

```
if ($env == 'prod') {
    $sc->getDefinition('dispatcher')->addMethodCall('addSubscriber', array(new Reference('listener.exception')));
}
```

We can use this way to alter exist services, so the system is very flexible.


References
----------

Here are some useful links to learn more about Dependency Injection:

1. http://symfony.com/doc/current/book/service_container.html
2. http://symfony.com/doc/current/components/dependency_injection/introduction.html
3. http://fabien.potencier.org/article/62/create-your-own-framework-on-top-of-the-symfony2-components-part-12
